And in production to the book of Haggai, Haggai was likely born in Babylon.
In 537 BCE, he traveled with a remnant of the Jewish nation to Jerusalem, where he would
later serve as a prophet.
Haggai completed his book in 520 BCE.
But why did Jehovah cause him to begin prophesying?
In 536 BCE, the Jews laid the foundation for the New Temple in Jerusalem.
Sadly, the work stopped for many years because of opposition for enemies and apathy on
the part of the Jews.
In the year 520 BCE, Jehovah sent Haggai to rekindle the zeal of the Jews in order to
resume temple construction.
The temple was finally completed in 515 BCE.
Did you know?
In the 38 verses that make up chapters 1 and 2, Haggai uses the name Jehovah 35 times,
14 times in the expression Jehovah of Armies.
The book of Haggai has two chapters that convey four inspired messages.
Chapter 1 directs the first message toward those who are focusing on their own interests
while Jehovah's House lies in ruins.
Governors are rubbable, high priest Joshua, and the rest of the people respond favorably,
and go to work on the temple just 23 days after Haggai started to prophesy.
In chapter 2, Haggai delivers the second inspired message.
Jehovah promises that he will shake the nations and cause their precious things to come in,
and that he will fill his house with glory.
Later, Haggai delivers the third inspired message to the priests, explaining that neglect
of pure worship has made the nation unclean before God.
Then Haggai proclaims the fourth message.
Again, Jehovah speaks of shaking the heavens and the earth, but this time it will mean
the complete annihilation of human kingdoms.
Centuries afterward, the Apostle Paul quoted Haggai's words to show that God's kingdom
in the hands of Jesus Christ will never be shaken.
As you read Haggai, note how personal interests must take a backseat to spiritual interests.
How mere formalistic worship does not please Jehovah, and how God's kingdom in the hands
of Jesus Christ will never be shaken.